V1.1 (#97)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc

+
If you want to create REST or SOAP APIs with OAS or WSDL definition, use Anypoint Platform. 
+
If you want to upload a REST API or OAS asset type, you must use a .json or .yaml file. Alternatively, if you want to upload a SOAP API or WSDL asset type, use a .wsdl or .xml file.
* <<create-api-autocreate,Create an API using the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature>>
+
You can configure Anypoint Service Mesh to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform (no manual logging required). When the REST or SOAP APIs are automatically created with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition. 
+
You can use any of the following options for authenticating the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature:

** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI, user credentials>>
+
Use the username and password authentication option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform.  
** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps, Connected Apps credentials>>
+

> Use the xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps] authentication option if your users are managed by an external identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps] authentication option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external identity provider (IdP).
```

If you want to create REST or SOAP APIs with OAS or WSDL definition, use Anypoint Platform. 
+
Note that if you want to upload a REST API or OAS asset type, use a .json or .yaml file. Alternatively, if you want to upload a SOAP API or WSDL asset type, use a .wsdl or .xml file.
* <<create-api-ASM-CLI, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with user credentials>>
+

> Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using username and password, with no REST or SOAP definitions. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform. Use this option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform. 

Reviewer 2: What does the first sentence mean: you to automatically create does not make sense, since something automatic is not created by you (which would be manual).
Do you mean...:
```suggestion
Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using only your username and password, without requiring REST or SOAP definitions. 
```
But then, the second sentence mentions no need to manually log in to AP, so...should the first sentence keep "automatically" but say that ASM automatically creates this, without requiring you to log in to AP or to provide REST or SOAP?

Then the third sentence: Are you to use this option only if your users are already managed by AP, and if they are not, what option should you use instead?

I am not getting the point of this: what is the user benefit? To create an API in AP without logging in to AP? To create an API without creating REST or SOAP? 
Or are we saying that SM does this for you without you taking any action?
And how does your capability as admin relate to your users: you can do this only if THEY in AP but you are not?

Author: Fixed! You can configure Anypoint Service Mesh to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform (no manual logging in required) for you using the xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps] credentials. 
Use this option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external identity provider (IdP).

+

> If you automatically create REST or SOAP APIs with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition. 

Reviewer 2: Again, "if you automatically create" is not clear: if you create, then that is manual; if the software creates, then it is automatic. Clarify throughout.
And is this saying that you can have REST or SOAP APIs without definitions?
Are you still logging in with only a username and password? Isn't the focus of this topic supposed to be using user credentials, rather than all these other details about REST and SOAP, with or without definitions?
And does the "still" in "the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset" refer to the previous "create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform"?

Author: Made a lot of org changes. Done! Thanks!

> * <<create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with client credentials>>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* <<create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with Connected Apps>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using the xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps] credentials. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform.
+

> Use this option if your users are managed by an external identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: Please, would you apply the following suggestions? It's already applied in `modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CRD.adoc`

```suggestion
Use this option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external identity provider (IdP).
```

Reviewer 2: Okay, now that I have read through this, it looks like we are trying to say...:
ASM enables you to create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform without having to log in to AP.
If your users are managed by AP only, then you can do this using only your username and password as credentials.
If your users are managed by either AP or and IdP, then you can do this using connected apps credentials (which are?).

I don't see where "automatically" comes in to this, or REST or SOAP.

Maybe what we really want is something like this:

Using Anypoint Service Mesh, you can create...without logging in to AP by using either of the following credentials:
* Username and password
Use these credentials if...
* Connected apps credentials
Use these credentials if....

> Use this option if your users are managed by an external single sign-on (SSO) application or an external identity provider (IdP). When you use a client application for authentication instead of an external IdP, you must use the client ID and client secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use this option if your organization has configured an external identity provider (IdP). 
```

Single Sign On is a capability you can have when you configure an external identity provider.

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If you automatically create REST or SOAP APIs with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition. 

Reviewer 2: This is a duplicate text.

Author: No, it is not.

Your API is now created.

[[create-api-ASM-CLI]]

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With User Credentials

Reviewer 3: In the title above, User Credentials was lower case, please unify way of writing titles.

Author: That was a bullet item and will follow sentence-style capitalization. This one is a title, so will follow title caps.

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With User Credentials

Reviewer 2: Using my suggested bullets above....
```suggestion
== Create an API by Using Your User Credentials
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with your username and password. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before using the steps provided to create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh and your username and password, meet the following prerequisites:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Task Prerequisite*

Reviewer 2: I think we are moving to a task template that will include a Prerequsites subtopic and then a new heading to start the actual steps.
In the meantime, I recommend not using this inline heading and moving straight to the list of prereqs, introduced by the task intro, as suggested above.

Author: Ok Done! Thanks!

* Manage APIs Configuration permission for the environment where you are creating the API Instance.
* Exchange Contributor permission for the business group where you are creating the asset.

> To create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with user credentials, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh and user credentials, perform the following steps:
```

Author: changed it to "using". Done! Thanks!

The API that was created is displayed.
. Optionally, you can verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

[[create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps]]

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Connected Apps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Create an API Using Connected Apps Credentials
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Client Credentials

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Connected Apps
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Client Credentials

Reviewer 3: Do we need to repeat the whole section again? This will make docs harder to maintain.

Author: Yes, I think it is easier for the user this way. Once they decide which way they want to follow, they just do to one section of the document and get done with the task.

Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with your Connected App credentials. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.

*Task Prerequisite*

> Before you begin, ensure that:

Reviewer 2: ditto previous edits to the intro to the other method of creating an API

Consider also beginning each prereq/steps text block with a statement that reiterates WHY the audience wants to use THIS method, something like...:

Choose this method of using Service Mesh to create an API when.... Before using the steps....

Both subtopics should be worded as much the same as possible.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * You xref:obtain-connected-apps-credentials.adoc[Obtain the client ID and client secret credentials] from Connected Apps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:obtain-connected-apps-credentials.adoc[Obtain the client ID and client secret] from Connected Apps.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * The client credentials has the:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify that these client credentials include:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** Exchange Contributor permission to publish the API to Exchange

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Exchange Contributor permission, so that you can publish the API to Exchange
```

Author: Changed to: Exchange Contributor permission for publishing the API to Exchange
Done! Thanks!

> ** Manage API Configuration to manage the API in API Manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The Manage API configuration, so that you can manage the API in API Manager
```

Author: Changed to: Manage API Configuration permission for managing the API in API Manager
Done! Thanks!

> To create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with Connected Apps, perform the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh and Connected Apps credentials, perform the following steps:
```

Author: Changed to: To create autocreate using Connected Apps, perform the following steps:
Done! Thanks!

. Using Anypoint Service Mesh, type the following command to create the API:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
asmctl api create
--name=_Kubernetes API resource name_ \
--namespace=_namespace name_ \
--environmentId=_environment ID_ \
--groupId=_(Optional) group ID of the asset, for example, organization ID_ \
--assetId=_asset ID on Exchange_ \
--version=_asset version of the instance on exchange_ \
--instanceLabel=_label of the instance on API Manager_ \
--specTags=_list of comma separated tags to be added to the asset on Exchange_ \
--instanceTags=_list of comma separated tags to be added to the instance on API Manager_ \
--clientId=_ID of the Anypoint Platform Connected Apps, using which to create the API instance_ \
--clientSecret=_client secret of the Anypoint Platform Connected Apps, using which to create the API instance_
----

> +

Reviewer 2: If the command syntax includes definitions of the parameters, why do we need the following table?
Or ares those supposed to be commented out?

Reviewer 2: Also, I wonder if we shouldn't consider a task topic structure that moves this reference information out of the steps and into a peer reference topic...so that we would have something like:

==Prerequisites
==Create
. Create the API:
[source,text,linenums]
. Verify that the API is operational:
`asmctl api list`
. Optionally verify that an asset was created in Exchange and an API in API Manager
==Parameter Reference for [source,text,linenums]
Brief intro
Table

Reviewer 2: For Description in the table that follows, I would like to remove the periods from the fragment descriptions and change the 2-sentence versions to one fragment.
See edits that follow.

Author: Moving the table into a reference section is perhaps a good idea, but I would keep the table with the instructions itself because this information is needed when the users are typing the command. It will be a nuisance to send them elsewhere for each sentence of the command/code. Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> | Parameter Name | Description | Required or Optional | Default Value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Parameter Name | Description | Required or Optional | Value
```

Author: I would keep it as Default Value. Done! Thanks!

> | `name` | The name of the Kubernetes API resource that you want to provision, for example, `orders-api`. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `name` | The name of the Kubernetes API resource that you want to provision, for example, `orders-api`| Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `namespace` | The namespace in which you want to create the adapter, for example, `mulesoft-apps`. | Optional | default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `namespace` | The namespace in which you want to create the adapter, for example, `mulesoft-apps` | Optional | default
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `environmentId` | The ID of the environment where you want to create your API instance. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `environmentId` | The ID of the environment where you want to create your API instance | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `groupId` | The ID of the group of assets on Exchange, for example, the organization ID. You can find the organization ID on the API Manager landing page or in Access Management. | Optional | Organization ID of the organization that contains the environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `groupId` | The ID of the group of assets on Exchange, for example, the organization ID, which you obtain on the API Manager landing page or in Access Management | Optional | Organization ID of the organization that contains the environment. 
```
Should having this ID actually be a prerequisite, so that we don't send the audience off searching for it right in the middle of this task?

Author: Good point! Done! Thanks!

> | `assetId` | The ID of the assets that are a part of an organization. Supports alphanumeric characters without spaces. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `assetId` | The ID of the assets that are a part of an organization, in alphanumeric characters without spaces | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `version` | The version of the asset on Exchange. The version number must follow the semantic versioning format for major, minor, and patch releases. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `version` | The version number of the asset on Exchange, in the semantic versioning format for major, minor, and patch releases | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `instanceLabel` | The ID of the API instances of an Asset within a given environment. Supports alphanumeric characters without spaces. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `instanceLabel` | The ID of the API instances of an asset within a given environment, in alphanumeric characters without spaces. | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `specTags` | Tags to add to the asset on Exchange. |  Optional | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `specTags` | Tags to add to the asset on Exchange |  Optional | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `instanceTags` | Tags to add to the API instance on API Manager. |  Optional | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `instanceTags` | Tags to add to the API instance on API Manager |  Optional | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `clientId` | The client ID of the Anypoint Platform, using which to create the API. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `clientId` | The client ID of the Anypoint Platform used to create the API | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `clientSecret` | The client secret of the Anypoint Platform, using which to create the API. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer: Please, could you add the connected app part to these descriptions:
```suggestion
| `clientId` | The client ID of the Anypoint Platform Connected App, using which to create the API. | Required | Not applicable
| `clientSecret` | The client secret of the Anypoint Platform Connected App, using which to create the API. | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | `clientSecret` | The client secret of the Anypoint Platform, using which to create the API. | Required | Not applicable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `clientSecret` | The client secret of the Anypoint Platform used to create the API. | Required | Not applicable
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===
+

> . Verify the API status using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify the API status:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`asmctl api list`
+

> The API that was created is displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API that is displayed.
```

Author: The new API is displayed.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Optionally, you can verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Optionally, verify that an Exchange asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== See Also

> * xref::bind-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc[Bind a Service Using CLI]

Reviewer 2: BREAK DEV EDIT HERE

Reviewer 2: RESUME
